question:
What was the recent scotus ruling on affirmative action?

context:
Schuette v. Coalition to Defend Affirmative Action, 572 U.S. 291 (2014) A Michigan state constitutional amendment that bans affirmative action does not violate the Equal Protection Clause.
Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Peña, 515 U.S. 200 (1995) Race-based discrimination, including discrimination in favor of minorities (affirmative action), must pass strict scrutiny.
Students for Fair Admissions v. Harvard, 600 U.S. ___ (2023) and Students for Fair Admissions v. University of North Carolina, 600 U.S. ___ (2023)  Race-based affirmative action programs in civilian college admissions processes violate the Equal Protection Clause.
Dred Scott v. Sandford, 60 U.S. 393 (1857) People of African descent that are slaves or were slaves and subsequently freed, along with their descendants, cannot be United States citizens. Consequently, they cannot sue in federal court. Slavery cannot be prohibited in U.S. territories before they are admitted to the Union as doing so would violate the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment. After the Civil War, this decision was voided by the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution.
Korematsu v. United States, 323 U.S. 214 (1944) President Franklin D. Roosevelt's Executive Order 9066 is constitutional; therefore, American citizens of Japanese descent can be interned and deprived of their basic constitutional rights. This case featured the first application of strict scrutiny to racial discrimination by the government. (Potentially overruled by Trump v. Hawaii (2018))

answer:
The recent SCOTUS ruling on affirmative action was in the cases of Students for Fair Admissions v. Harvard and Students for Fair Admissions v. University of North Carolina in 2023. The ruling stated that race-based affirmative action programs in civilian college admissions processes violate the Equal Protection Clause. This decision impacts how universities can consider race in their admissions processes and may have implications for affirmative action policies across the country.